In addition to supervised and unsupervised learning,
there are a handful of other data science methods that make up the Data Science Toolbox.
For example, a class of learning methods that falls between
supervised and unsupervised methods is known as semi-supervised learning.
Semi-supervised learning generally needs
only a small subset of cases for which an outcome measure is available.
This can overcome the sometimes very costly need to classify outcomes in your data.
We often refer to cases with outcomes as labeled,
whereas cases with no outcome are unlabeled.
For example, a medical unit may want to diagnose lung problems from CT or MRI scans.
Having a radiologist classify the tens of thousands of
cases often required for supervised learning is often too expensive.
Semi-supervised methods require only a small subset of labeled cases and can learn
the most likely classifications for the large number of
unlabeled cases using a combination of supervised and unsupervised techniques.
Two remaining families of data science methods
include reinforcement learning and recommender systems.
Reinforcement learning represents a family of
algorithms that learn in a trial and error fashion.
They interact with an environment towards a specific objective,
modifying actions in repeated iterations after receiving some feedback or reward.
The game-playing agents that have prominently beat chess grand-masters
and world champions and Go are based on reinforcement learning techniques.
Reinforcement learning also plays a role in self-driving cars,
optimizing factory floor conditions,
and teaching robots how to complete tasks.
Finally, recommender systems exploit similarities between cases,
such as customer purchase behavior to recommend a next item or
action based on what was preferred by those most similar to the case in hand.
Examples of recommender systems include product recommendation,
such as what you might find on Amazon or
other retailer websites and Next Best Offer programs that are common in banking,
insurance, and many other contexts.
Content recommendation like you might see on
Facebook or Twitter is based in recommender systems,
as our playlist recommendations from Netflix, YouTube or Spotify,
and even restaurant or online dating recommendations
found in sites specific to those interests.
Now that we have built up our foundation a little more,
it's time to test again. Good luck.